The President:
Hi, everybody.
Four years after the worst
economic crisis of our
lifetimes, we're seeing
signs that, as a nation,
we're moving forward again.
After losing about 800,000 jobs
a month when I took office,
our businesses have now added
5.2 million new jobs over the
past two and a half years.
And on Friday, we learned that
the unemployment rate is now at
its lowest level
since I took office.
More Americans are
entering the workforce.
More Americans are getting jobs.
But too many of our friends and
neighbors are still looking for
work or struggling
to pay the bills --
many of them since long
before this crisis hit.
We owe it to them to
keep moving forward.
We've come too far
to turn back now.
We've made too much progress to
return to the policies that got
us into this mess
in the first place.
For example -- two years ago,
we put in place tougher,
common sense rules of the road
for Wall Street to make sure
that the kind of crisis we've
been fighting back from never
happens again.
These rules mean that big banks
are no longer going to be able
to make risky bets
with your deposits.
And if a big bank does make a
bad decision, they pay for it --
not taxpayers.
And we also put in place the
strongest consumer protections
in our history to crack down on
the worst practices of credit
card companies and
mortgage lenders.
But for some reason, some
Republicans in Congress are
still waging an all-out battle
to delay, de-fund and dismantle
these common sense new rules.
Why?
Do they think undoing rules that
protect families from the worst
practices of credit card
companies and mortgage lenders
will make the middle
class stronger?
Do they think getting rid of
rules to prevent another crisis
on Wall Street will make
Main Street any safer?
Republicans in Congress need
to stop trying to re-fight the
battles of the past few
years, and finally start doing
something to actually help
the middle class get ahead.
And here are three things
they can do right now.
First, Congress needs to step
up and guarantee that 98% of
Americans and 97% of small
business owners won't see their
taxes go up next year.
This is something that
everyone says they agree on.
It should have gotten
done months ago.
But Republicans in Congress
are standing in the way.
They're holding tax cuts for 98%
of Americans hostage until we
pass tax cuts for the
wealthiest 2% of Americans.
Ask them how that
helps the middle class.
Second, Congress needs to step
up and provide every responsible
homeowner a chance to save about
$3,000 a year on their mortgage
by refinancing at lower rates.
I gave them a plan to do
that -- back in February.
It's a plan that has the
support of independent,
nonpartisan economists
and leaders across the
housing industry.
But Republicans won't even
let that plan come to a vote.
Ask them how that
helps homeowners.
Third, Congress needs to step
up and pass my plan to create a
veterans jobs corps to help our
returning heroes find work as
cops, firefighters and park
rangers in communities across
the country.
A few weeks ago, Republicans in
the Senate voted that plan down.
Ask them why someone who fights
for this country abroad should
have to fight for a job
when they come home.
In other words, ask them
to get back to work and get
these things done.
If we're going to keep this
economy moving forward,
there's no time for
political games.
Even in a political season.
Everyone needs to do their part.
If you agree with me, let
your Representative know
where you stand.
Tell them that if
they want your vote,
then they need to stand with
you and not in the way of
our recovery.
Thanks and have a great weekend.